In the last video you created accounts with both get hub and Heroku.
Now in the end of the day both of those tools they need access to our project code Heroku is going to
need access to the project code so it can actually deploy our node applications and get how it needs
access to the project code so it can show it on the project home page allowing us to collaborate with
others track code changes over time or manage issues in our application.
Either way we need a reliable way to get our code to both of those services.
Now the answer is not to just zip up the folder and send it off to those services.
The answer is to use version control with get in this video we're going to talk about what version control
is and what get is will get get installed and that's going to allow us to actually use it in the next
video to get started.
Let's talk about what exactly version control is version control allows you to manage the versions of
your application over time.
So imagine the web server project as we add new features or change code with version control we can
track those changes we can create what are essentially save points along the way for the various versions
of our application.
Now why is that useful.
Well imagine you had an application and you had a thousand users who were paying you for that app.
You want to add a new feature to give your users something new and exciting so you make some changes
to your project and you deploy it.
Now let's say that you discover that something's wrong with that new feature.
There's a bug.
So what do you want to do.
You want to revert to the previous working state then you want to spend a little more time working on
that new feature and when it's ready and the bug is fixed you'll deploy it back to your users.
That's a very simple workflow but without version control you're not going to have an easy way to revert
back to a previous working state of your application.
The only version of the project you have is the broken one you're locally saved files unless you have
a picture perfect memory and a lot of spare time on your hands.
You're not going to be able to revert to the application back to its previously working state with version
control.
You could do that in about a second.
So without version control you are living on the edge.
If anything goes wrong it's going to be a big problem.
You're going to have to manually work with all of these files to figure out what went wrong or you're
going to have to rewrite them if they get lost with version control.
You're in the clear.
You can experiment and try different ways to approach problems if solution one doesn't work.
You can revert those changes in a second and you can try to approach the problem from a different angle.
It gives you flexibility and confidence knowing you can experiment with your code but always get back
to that working state you had before.
Without wasting your time and energy you should be using version control for every personal and professional
project you're working on.
If you're willing to spend time writing code it's best to spend an extra 10 seconds to integrate version
control allowing you to track those version changes over time and manage your application code with
ease.
Now in this course we'll be using the get version control system.
There are other version control tools out there but it is by far the most popular and the most widely
used and for a good reason.
It's super fast and easy to work with and you can use get regardless of the programming language you're
working with.
You could use get with Java with an iPhone application or in our case with node j s we can install and
learn more about get over in the browser.
I'm going to change the documentation you are all over to get hyphen s CRM dot com here.
There are a ton of great resources that teach you how to use get that will cover the basics and the
class.
And here we can also install these get tools allowing us to integrate version control into our programming
projects.
Right here you should see the installer for your operating system.
Here I have the installer for Mac and down below.
I just want to point you to one more resource.
There is a book called Pro get it's a free book and it's available to read right here on the get to
Web site.
I definitely recommend checking it out as you continue on with your development career.
If you move into any real development position they're gonna be using get most likely and knowing how
it works is going to allow you to get up and running quickly.
For now though let's go ahead and just grab the installer so we can use get in our project.
This is going to download what you need in order to get the tools set up and once again this is going
to give us access to something new from the terminal.
It looks like the download hasn't started.
I can always click there to manually grab it from source forge dot net and once we do have it installed
we'll explore the very basics.
Throughout the next several videos down below.
It is indeed downloading what we need.
I'm gonna go ahead and run the installer for my operating system and once again this is one of those
click Next installers.
If you're on Windows though at some point throughout the options menu it's going to ask you if you want
to install something called Get bash.
You have to check that option if you don't you're gonna have to reinstall get later in the course to
get access to get bash.
This is going to allow you to perform some operations that you would otherwise not be able to perform
on Windows.
So once again for Windows users only make sure to check the option in the installer that installs get
bash.
Right here I'm on a Mac.
I'm going to double click that installer.
Actually I need to right click it and click open so I can verify that I want to install this software
from the Web.
And once again as mentioned this is just the type of installer where we click Next a few times unless
you're on Windows.
Make sure to check the get bash installation option.
Now once things are done we're gonna go ahead and restart the terminal once again from Visual Studio
code and we're gonna make sure everything got installed correctly.
I'm going to trash the installer.
I'm gonna head over to visual studio code.
I'll use the trash can to close the terminal then I'll open up a new one right here terminal new terminal
from here.
We're gonna use get which is the command we got access to when we installed get we'll be using all sorts
of get commands throughout this section and throughout the rest of the class.
All we're going to do in this video is make sure it installed correctly by checking the version we have
installed on our machines.
That is get space hyphen hyphen version.
If I run this it's gonna print the version of Get I have installed which is two point nineteen point
two.
Now the exact version of Get you're using is not particularly important as long as you're using V2 or
greater.
If you're seeing v 0 or v 1 as that first number that's a problem.
Now you shouldn't be seeing that as you just installed the tool.
So right here we do indeed have get installed correctly and throughout the section we're gonna start
to put our project under version control to keep track of its changes over time.
Then we're gonna be able to take those changes and we're gonna be able to send them off to the github
servers and the Heroku servers by running commands from the terminal.
That is how we're gonna send our code off to those third party services.
Now we're gonna talk more about what get is and how it's going to work for our application files in
the very next video.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's go ahead and jump right in.